Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a set of commands, instructions, and other syntax which use to create a computing task
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
What is IDE?
A.Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is a software application
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Popular IDEs in the markets are: 1) IntelliJ IDEA, 2) NetBeans, 3) Eclipse, 4) Codenvy, 5) DrJava, 6) BlueJ, 7) JGrasp
Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Start writing source code using IDE, source code converted in to byte code using javac compiler. Byte code is in the form of ‘.class’. then the class file loads to JVM using java loader. JVM send the out put to the operating system and finally operating system gives the out put to the end user
what is class?
A. Class is the blue print of a object
What is object?
A. Object is an instance of a class
What is the entry point of an application?
A. Main method
Why main is static?
A.Java program's main method is static because keyword static allows main to call the class without creating an object which the main method is defined. If we omit static keyword before main Java program will successfully compile but it won't execute
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No, we can not. A concrete class implement the Interface and override the method. A concrete class also extends the Abtract class override the unimplemented method
what is Access Specifier?
A. Access Specifier / modifiers are keywords that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object oriented programming.
There are 4 types of feathures of OOP
1. Inheritance
2. Abstraction
3. Encapsulation
4. Polymorphism
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
A.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java Archive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









